I want to say that I am not comfortable writing about this topic for many reasons.  I don't like having these conversations with people over the internet and with whom I don't know very well.  These conversations are best had in person, in group discussions, with interaction and tone (instead of type).  It's an intimate and personal topic that deserves to be treated as such. But mostly because I don't think that this topic is handled right even by the well intended. I think that these issues are intesting to talk about from a social science perspective, however the amount of variables are extremely numerous and it's very difficult to draw on a conclusion that can be a sweeping generalization in it's own right.
Unless we understand the deeper sciences (e.g evolutionary biology, neuroscience), then we aren't getting down to the core issues.  Stereotype threat is a symptom of greater issue.  If you want to talk about it with me at DBC, that's fine, but I don't think an online forum is really the best venue.

It's far more nuanced than these articles even get in to.

I will say that systematic oppression is happening. It's real and denial of that leaves one on the side of ignorance.  There's also differences between oppression and then just  bigotry, which often times I find that people trying to stop oppression don't realize that they end up doing and saying some pretty offensive things.

But with the state of outrage culture even among the most progressive of us, I can't help but see the attributes of racism and ignorance I was exposed to in the deep south among a lot people who think they're fighting oppression.  A persistent plague is that people are unaware that every idea is subject to criticism by anyone regardless of inherent attributes, but most people can't take criticism.

Growing up as a beta, male nerd with many bullies (male, female, multiracial), getting pummeled and having my sexuality/masculinity under scrutiny, the way I look at it is that everyone is capable of hate.  People can pick a number of reasons not to like you.  People will ostracize you and cast you out of an in group for many reasons.  Sometimes it's racism, sometimes it's sexism, but from my experience, it's probably more common that they just don't like you.  Sometimes it's because of something you did, others times it's on them.  And they can just not like you because they simply don't.  No other reason.  There are voluminous amounts of in groups holding fast on keeping you out.

Perspective

I often joke to people that if I were someone else and I saw my younger self, I would have beat him up too.  That's how I make light of the situation.

But I know what its like not to be liked solely for who I am, not get invited to parties, be rejected from groups... I know that. I don't know systematic oppression, but I do know what it feels like to have few friends and not belong.  Took awhile to get over that.





If you really want to know what the threat is, it boils down to education and the things we need to understand this complex and nuanced issue.

Without a base understanding of the how our brains are wired and the self awareness of our actions, we're taking the long path to prejudice if we're even lucky that the path ends at the right destination.

Human civilization evolved way quicker than our bodies did.  We're walking around with an operating system meant for a different world than that which we exist in.  If you don't understand the limitations of our brain, then I don't think you can really reach the pinnacle of self awareness.

Everybody is capable of





I hate using terms like white people and black people because those groups are more nuanced than that, despite whatever generalizations you want to throw at it.  Even terms like men and women are blanketed and the entire peoples are thrown under the bus for the actions of the unjust among them. We have a culture that seems to be more convinced (and even profits) off of outrage, a feeling that overwhelms logic and seems to destroy any rational argument that the more metacognizant may want to have.

Much like a programmer can only know so much about a computer without understanding the mechanics of the parts in which it operates (Contentious, but I'm willing to have that debate).

The truth is this country doesn't know how to have a real logical and well thought conversation about this issue, not without emotion surging and crashing an semblance of an intellectual debate.  I hold the position that about 8 out of 10 in America can really .

I enjoy the deluge of perspectives we get now, but unless those thoughts are bound to a fully fledged rational argument, then their is no hope for progressing.

When
The path to hell is paved with good intentions.  Outrage seems to come from a good place, but often ends up becoming well-intended bigotry.

Prejudice isn't going to go away.  It's something you have to be aware of.  It's something you have to maintain and check.  To get rid of prejudice would be to get rid of crime, both of which are an impossibility at the current iteration of our species.  I think people are quick to notice other people's transgression and point them out, hypocritically unaware of their flawed design.

Everybody is capable of